---
title: 'What To Expect'
slug: 'what-to-expect'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

# What To Expect

Learning to code can be really hard. There's a lot of new terms, challenging concepts, and
frustrating bugs. At the same time, understanding technology and making things with code is fun,
exciting, and empowering.

We want your learning to be as easy and fun as possible, and for you to learn as much as possible
about the web. This page covers the difference between 'knowing about' and 'knowing how', what
progress looks like, the organization and kinds of content you'll see in the course, and how we'll
do creative projects.

## Knowing About vs. Knowing How

There's so much out there to know about computers, and so many different things that programmers can
do with computers. It's worth calling out the difference between knowing _about_ something and
knowing how to use something. It's the difference between having heard of HTML and actually being
able to build a website.

For the core ideas of the course, we want you to have both: knowledge about what something is, and
the practical (and demonstrable) knowledge of how to use it.

For other topics, we're just giving you knowledge _about_ something. We want you to know that it
exists, but we're not going to have exercises and projects that help you apply that knowledge.
Sometimes these are related topics that offer historical context. A lot of these will just be
pointers to huge topics, that might take a whole course to cover on their own (some of those courses
are coming soon!) We think they're important, but also that you have to learn things piece by piece.
That means this course can't cover them in depth - just indicate that they exist.

## The Path to Expertise

Progression in learning to code tends to follow these steps:

1. Reading code
2. Making small changes to someone else's code
3. Writing code to solve a predefined problem
4. Independent, creative coding

We want you to become an expert. Making things with code is fun and satisfying, especially when you
take a project all the way from an idea to an app you can share with the world. To get there, you'll
need to move through these stages. Learners usually cycle through these stages for each new concept,
with an overall progression forward. It'll take time and effort!

Let's talk more about what to expect from these stages, and how to tell that you're making progress.

1. Reading Code

At this stage, you'll be able to read code and recognize the different parts that make it up. You'll
be able to name the different pieces of syntax, and identify what they do. Progress in this stage
often looks like being better able to predict what some code will do, and increasing feelings of
comfort when looking at a piece of code.

2. Editing someone else's code

The next level is being able to make tweaks to code, in order to achieve the change you want to see
in the output. You learn to find and fix basic errors. For many developers, this stage involves a
lot of copy/paste style development. Borrowing code to get something done is common, and encouraged!
But, it's not the level of mastery that we're aiming for.

3. Writing code to solve a defined problem

After editing code comes writing code from scratch. First, new coders learn to solve narrow,
pre-defined problems. Having a smaller scope means less complexity to manage, which helps get more
practice, instead of spending time stuck on things that are too hard or complicated. Problem solving
skills take lots of practice, so challenges at this level gradually increase in scope and
difficulty.

4. Building independently

Eventually, learners get comfortable taking an idea, breaking it down into component pieces, and
building the whole whole thing "from scratch" - that is, without relying on steps they follow from a
tutorial. Often, programmers will still draw from reference materials, whether that's documentation
or example code. They know what's possible given their set of skills, and they know the boundaries
of their abilities.

When you get to this level, you're able to improvise, figuring out on the fly how to solve
subproblems that you encounter. With the confidence that you can solve problems as they arise, you
can explore creatively.

## Questions, Examples, Exercises, and Projects

To support your progress through these stages, we'll give you different kinds of practice materials.

_Questions_ like flashcards, multiple choice, and text response will help you learn and remember the
concepts.

_Examples_ will give you a chance to explore code without a specific goal, except to see for
yourself how something works.

_Exercises_ have a specific goal that you'll need to achieve with code. Sometimes they're tricky,
but you'll have the tools you need to solve them.

_Projects_ will tap into your creativity. Since they're more open-ended, they take longer, and it
won't always be perfectly clear when you're done. We'll give you the criteria that you _must_ hit,
but how you get there is up to you.

## Scaffolded Creative Projects and "Mise en place"

A lot of online coding tutorials are cookie-cutter project. You follow the steps one by one, and end
up with exactly the same project as everyone else who takes the course. That's okay - it can help
show you what is possible, and you can learn by reading the code and seeing how it is put together.
Still, following someone else's recipe is not as fun as thinking up your own idea and building it.

On the other hand, if you already knew how to design and build web pages, you probably wouldn't be
taking this course! Total creative freedom means that you might run into roadblocks and get stuck.

In this course, you'll build **scaffolded creative projects**. That means you'll design what goes on
the page, with some constraints. Those constraints will focus your energy on what you've learned,
and allow you to be creative without getting too stuck.

_Mise en place_ is French for "everything in its place". The phrase is used in cooking to
distinguish prep work - gathering the ingredients, organizing the kitchen, chopping vegetables -
from the cooking.

We've seen some students get stuck in the planning and organizing phase of a project. To help avoid
getting stuck, we'll provide a pre-project _Mise en place_ checklist, so that you have all the
'ingredients' for your project before you start coding.
